[Voice] What is this light?
I would not know
a sight like this.
So tell me, is
that light strange?
And the sky?
And the ground?
Only this light is strange?
I wonder why that's
the way it is?
[Voice] For this girl who
stays here all the time,
this light is part of nature.
"This is a shadow," I thought,
"but a shadow is cast."
"So, what cast this shadow?"
Wait a minute. To think
that something is strange
means you have knowledge
of that which is not strange.
[Voice] I will delve
deep into my memories.
Sometime long ago, or
perhaps way into the future,
I was in another world.
That is one sensation
I remember.
Oh, hi there. How are
you today, Okazaki?
Nagisa, what are you
doing here now?
You're gonna be late.
I caught a glimpse of you
and thought that maybe
we could walk together,
so I waited for you.
[Nagisa] You don't want to?
[Tomoya] Why would I not wanna
walk with you to school?
C'mon, let's go.
'Kay!
[Tomoya] No one's been
signing up for the club.
[Nagisa] No...
[Tomoya] Maybe I should
just go talk to her.
[Nagisa] Who?
[Motorbike progressively
getting closer]
[Tomoya] Huh?
Out of the way, Tomoya!
[Kyou] Tomoya!
[Nagisa] Okazaki,
are you all right?!
Speak to me! Please get up!
Hey, Tomoya!
Oh, Okazaki...
He seems all right. Oh well.
You're leaving me behind?!
I'm just joking.
Nagisa, are you all right?
You're not hurt, are you?
No, I think I'm all right.
[Kyou] Oooh.
[Tomoya] What?
Seems you two've
become awfully close,
calling her by her
first name, I see.
Are the two of you dating?
Maybe you've even kissed?
[Tomoya] No, we're friends!
[Nagisa] O-Okazaki is just
helping me with
reviving the club!
How can you even suggest it?!
Why it's just ludicrous!
Fine, we'll just leave the
two of you as friends then.
I'm going on ahead.
Okazaki, are you sure
you're not really hurt?
Let me ask you something.
Do you remember when I
started calling you Nagisa?
Huh?!
Well, uh...
[Tomoya gasps]
[Nagisa gasps]
I was just about to
remember something that
happened in our past.
I was too.
Something so very
warm and nostalgic.
And somehow sad...
It's hard to explain.
Shall we go, Nagisa?
Yes. Let's go to school.
[Youhei] Recruit members?
Yeah, even if you come along,
it won't be much fun.
C'mon, don't say that.
I want to do everything
I can to help Nagisa too.
Wha-what are you saying?
That you really like Nagisa?
Of course! I've never loved
anyone this seriously
before Nagisa.
In the library up ahead,
there's a young girl
and she's always alone,
just sitting there reading
really advanced textbooks.
If you strike up a
conversation, she may
even treat you to a meal.
She's super cute,
pure, and smart.
And if I'm not mistaken,
she's not seeing anyone.
Please introduce me!
She's probably there now.
Make your move.
All right!
[Sounds of Youhei throwing
a fit, and books, around]
What is that guy doing in there?
She totally ignored me!
[Tomoya] Wow, that
didn't take long.
I approached her and
tried to hit on her,
but I didn't get a single
reaction out of her.
It ticked me off, so I tossed
around some books and knocked
down a couple of shelves,
but she still ignored me.
So who is this girl anyway?
Kotomi Ichinose,
you must know her.
Kotomi Ichinose? Oh, you
mean the famous genius?
Well, that explains it.
I mean, she lives in a totally
different world from us.
Sheesh. What a bunch of
wasted time that was.
Lives in a different
world, does she?
[Tomoya sighs heavily]
Hey, Kotomi.
Kotomi-chan.
Oh.
Tomoya, nice to see you.
Tomoya, you know we shouldn't
leave books lying around the
library like this.
It's the same thing
over and over, isn't it?
The Drama Club?
[Tomoya] I told
you about it before.
We're recruiting members.
Won't you meet with the
club leader after class?
She won't bully me, will she?
I guarantee she won't,
so you have nothing
to worry about.
[Nagisa] Hi there.
[Tomoya] I might have found us
a potential drama club member.
Go on, Kotomi.
Say hello, will ya?
If you say so. Hi, Tomoya.
Not to me, you goof!
All right. Go on, don't be
afraid. Tell her your name.
Okay.
Hi there. It's Kotomi,
written in hiragana.
Written as ko-to-mi.
Nice to meet you.
My name is Nagisa.
My name can be written in
in one Chinese directive.
[Kotomi] Nagisa...?
[Nagisa] Yes?
Don't you have anything else to
talk about besides your names?
[Kotomi] My last
name is Ichinose.
[Nagisa] Furukawa.
[Kotomi] Class A.
[Nagisa] I'm Class B.
[Kotomi] Type A blood.
[Nagisa] Oh my gosh, I am too!
[Kotomi] Pork cutlet sandwich.
[Nagisa] Anpan!
[Kotomi] African elephants!
[Nagisa] Cats!
Stop right there!
This exchange is totally
meaningless and pointless.
She may not look it,
but she is so smart
the faculty doesn't even make
her take college prep courses.
All she does all
day is read books,
so she has a huge vocabulary.
In other words,
I think that she would be a
perfect fit for the Drama Cl-
What is she doing over there?
[Kotomi coughs]
Are you okay?
A treasure box?
No, it's not. Nagisa, say
something to her, will ya?
Umm, okay.
Your hair is so shiny.
I'm kind of jealous of you.
No, not that! Go ahead
and invite her to join
the Drama Club!
[Nagisa] Oh.
[Tomoya] You and I practiced
your big speech, remember?
Recite some play,
like the line
"Let's shed tears
of youth together."
I won't have to shed
any tears, will I?
I think, if the
role calls for it,
you may have to
shed a few tears.
And maybe cry a little bit.
But I really don't want to cry.
Even so, if you have to cry,
then you're gonna cry.
So tell me, are you a bully?
No, not me.
I'm not a bully at all.
Oh!
[Kotomi] It's the
Big Dango Family.
Oh, don't tell me,
you like them?
Mmhmm. Very much.
[Tomoya] I'm going
to walk Kotomi home.
[Nagisa] Okay, see you tomorrow.
I have to say, I was
a little scared today.
I have a tendency to be like
that when I talk to someone
that I've just met for the first
time, but Nagisa was very kind.
You've always seemed so shy,
yet how come you got to
talking to me so easily?
Nagisa is a really nice person,
and she can draw
really, really well.
Hmph.
I think we should just
leave it at that.
So, is Nagisa your
sweetheart, Tomoya?
HMM?! No way!
Good grief! You
are just like Kyou,
asking such a stupid question.
[Kotomi] Kyou who?
[Tomoya] She's the class leader
for Class E and
tends to be brutal.
Oh, hey Tomoya, there's
a place I want to stop
by on our way home.
Everything is at your
convenience, is it?
What?
[Tomoya] You still
love books, don't you?
[Kotomi] I must study
lots of things or I won't
become a great person.
Hmph. Ah-huh, whatever.
Oh!
[Tomoya gasp] Hey!
Hey, wait! You can't do that!
Oh! What's the matter
with you, Tomoya?
Don't "what's the matter" me!
However much you love books,
you can't cut out pages
from books at school
or the bookstore.
If anything, copy the text
while no one's looking or...
I guess you'll get
scolded even for that.
Really?
Really.
I think you should
start socializing more,
and get out of that
library and meet people.
[Kotomi gasp]
Will she bully me? Will she?
No, she won't,
so just say hello.
If you say so. Hi, Tomoya.
Nice practice run,
next is the real McCoy.
And just what am I
expected to do exactly?
[Kotomi] Huh?!
[Tomoya] C'mon, Kotomi.
Okay. Hi there.
It's Kotomi, written in
hiragana. Written as ko-to-mi.
[Kyou] Ugh.
[Kotomi] Is she a bully?
Oh, so this is the
famous girl genius?
I wonder what she's doing
with a fat, lazy, loser,
degenerate like you?
Who are you calling
fat, lazy, loser?!
But she... she'll bully me!
Now, now. Don't be afraid of me.
This is just how she is.
You have lots of friends in
school, don't you, Kyou?
I was just thinking
that maybe you could be
Kotomi's friend as well.
[Kotomi whines softly]
[Kyou] You don't
become somebody's
friend just to do them so favor.
You don't give friendships
away like that.
You have to build them.
At times like this, you say all
the right things, don't you?
Besides, what are you looking
after little miss intellect for?
What happened about
helping Nagisa?
That's an on-going process.
As you know, I have a reputation
for being helpful to others.
[Kyou sighs deeply]
Seems that another rival
has appeared on the scene.
Will you say something?
No way!
See you, I have things to do.
Oh, by the way...
I'm Kyou Fujibayashi. Bye.
[Tomoya] I will say this,
that was a pretty big
hurdle to overcome.
You shouldn't feel too bad.
But all you do is sit
here and read books.
You should try talking to
people with jokes and retorts.
You understand what I'm saying?
Jokes and retorts?
[Tomoya] Let's practice
a little at a time.
And the goal is
one hundred friends!
One hundred friends?
Tomoya, you're amazing!
Sorry! Even I don't
have that many friends.
[Kotomi] Oh...
[Tomoya] No, don't
look so disappointed.
You just need to think
of a clever retort.
A retort, huh?
What?
I'm sorry, I can't be
doing this with you.
So farewell, sir.
[Tomoya] The future
looks bleak, doesn't it?
[Kotomi] Hmm?
She's looking for...
for friends?
Yeah, she's soliciting
for a few close friends.
Say hello.
If you say so. Hello, Tomoya.
That line's been
overused way too much.
Tell me, how do you and Kotomi
know each other, Okazaki?
You can consider us pals
at cutting class together.
Though, I'm a slacker
and she's a genius.
Oh, listen if you don't mind,
can I possibly tell your
fortune with my cards?
Hey, now that's a
great way to start a
conversation with someone.
[Ryou] Here you are.
Is she a bully?
To be honest, I have no idea.
This'll be your
fortune for the day.
I would like for you to
please pick three cards.
Now show them to me.
I don't think Ichinose
will make friends.
GAH! Why are you contradicting
my efforts like that,
you saboteur?!
[Kotomi whimpers]
[Tomoya] Wait, wait, wait!
Running away won't change
a thing! Confront reality!
So, tell me, are you a bully?
No, not really.
I mean, I don't think so.
But you did! You just told
her she can't make friends!
[Tomoya] You are a bully!
[Ryou] But you know that
sometimes fortune-telling
can be inaccurate.
Even if you get a negative
reading,
depending on how much you and
the people around you try,
it's possible to
change the future.
So, is that how it works?
[Ryou] Yes! Well, what
I mean to tell you is
that I think you're a really
fun person, Ichinose.
Then are you saying that
you're going to be her friend?
Sure! If I'll do, that is.
[Tomoya] Thank goodness she's
different from her rough
sister in that way.
I have to say,
Ryou wasn't too scary.
Anyone else but she would've
been taken aback by you.
First is the most
basic of basics.
You have to learn how
to introduce yourself.
[Kotomi] Hello, how do you do?
I'm Kotomi Ichinose from 3-A.
I love to read. It would
make me so very happy if
you and I could be friends.
That was great! We'll practice
this during the next break.
Is there anyone around here?
[Kotomi gasp]
[Tomoya] Whadda ya think
you're doing, Tomoyo?
[Kotomi] A bear...
[Tomoya] You're not on
campus police patrol.
So, are you checking out
some kind of bear costume?
Go ahead, greet the bear.
Why, hello there... bear.
It's so nice to meet you.
Hi there. I'm Kotomi
Ichinose from 3-A.
I simply love reading.
And I would be extremely happy
if you and I could be friends.
Is that possible?
I think she actually likes you.
[Kotomi] It's so soft.
[Tomoya] So I take it that
you like stuffed bears
and things like that?
Mmhmm. I love them.
Hey, Okazaki! I've been
looking all over for you!
Let's you and I go eat lunc-
You're that stupid bear that
kicked me the other day!
Don't move! I'm gonna
come get my reh-venge!
[Kotomi] Reh-venge?
[Tomoya] You could say English
isn't his best subject.
[Youhei gives a battle cry]
[Youhei yells]
[Tomoya] As always,
an amazing kick.
O-oh goodness. Oh?
Oh dear, cutting class
with a girl today?
I've cut class, but this
girl's really and truly smart,
so she gets excused from class.
Why, hello there.
Nice to meet you.
My name is Kotomi
Ichinose from 3-A.
[Grace gasp]
[Kotomi] I simply love reading.
And I would be extremely happy
if you and I could be friends.
Is that possible?
Well then. So you must be the
Ichinoses' daughter, Kotomi.
[Tomoya] You know her?
[Grace] You live in town
and you get to know
a great many people.
And besides, her parents
are fine scholars.
[Tomoya] Scholars?
[Kotomi] Mmm....
[Tomoya] Are your parents
college professors or something?
Well... yes.
I see, so the difference between
us starts with our parents.
Mmm...
[Kyou] Oh, found you!
See? I won't bully you.
Nice girl!
I thought you told me you
don't become friends as
a favor to someone?
Yes, I did. That's why I
approached from my side.
But you and I still
don't know very much
about each other, now do we?
No matter. I'm sure that
if we go out together,
I'm sure we'll get to
understand each other.
Don't you think it's a chance
to show how dependable you are?
What are you trying
to get me into?
I'm gonna go call Ryou,
so you make sure to
take us somewhere fun later!
So you think this
is a fun place?
Isn't it nice here?
Hey! I was expecting
to go to karaoke,
or the game center,
or a restaurant!
But I do hope that it's not a
terrible imposition that we
all came to this place.
Oh, no, I'm very happy.
[Kotomi] It hardly ever
gets lively in here.
I think it's very lively.
Look, I created this opportunity
for you, little sister.
Take advantage of it.
You need to step it up here.
What?!
[Kotomi] Here goes...
Why, hello there.
It's so nice to meet you.
I'm Kotomi Ichinose
from class 3-A.
I love simply reading.
And I would be extremely happy
if you and I could be friends.
Is that possible?
Hello. I'm Nagisa
Furukawa from 3-B.
I just love to perform.
If you and I could be friends,
that would be such a
wonderful thing for me.
My name is Ryou
Fujibayashi from 3-D.
My favorite hobby is...
is reading peoples fortunes.
I would be very happy
if we could be friends.
I'm Kyou Fujibayashi from 3-E.
Her hobby is
tormenting the weak.
I'd would be so very happy if we
could all be very close friends.
[Tomoya yells]
[Kyou] My hobby is what?!
Okazaki, you okay?
[Tomoya] Did you see that,
Kotomi?
That's called a retort.
Learn that timing.
Tomoyo... I have to say
that I'm very strong,
so please, you shouldn't
be mean to me.
[Tomoya] I... can't
keep this up with you.
[Ryou and Nagisa
"oh", impressed]
This isn't what I
expected from today.
[Tomoya] You should
all join the Drama Club.
You'll have more than
enough members to get
it sanctioned by
the school council.
I'm sorry for the club leader,
but I'll pass.
Neither my sister nor I
are interested in drama.
[Nagisa] Oh! But I would just
love it if you would stop
by now and then.
I just know we can all learn
a lot about timing from you.
I promise that I'm going to
practice lots and lots.
And then, one day,
I will be really good
at making witty retorts.
That's wonderful, Kotomi.
I'll be there to support you,
so please do your best.
Oh, please! I would so much
like to support you too.
Let's all do our best,
the three of us!
[Ryou] Okay!
[Kyou] What a strange
little group this is.
And you're a vital,
integral part of it.
[Ryuo, Nagisa, &
Kotomi giggling]
[Kyou] Oh well, whatever.
She seems to be enjoying it.
[Nagisa] Okazaki is really
strict about making
clever retorts.
[Faint violin playing]
[Kotomi gasp]
[Nagisa] Why, sometimes even...
Oh, is something
the matter, Kotomi?
[Tomoya] Hey, Kotomi!
Yes, what do you want?
H-hey, Kotomi.
What's wrong with you?
[Nishina] I'm sorry,
was I bothering you?
Oh no, no, really.
It's not anything like that.
[Nishina] What's the
matter with you?
[Kotomi] A violin...
[Nishina gasp]
Would you... would you like to
play it for a while, maybe?
[Kotomi] May I?
[Nishina] Sure.
[Kyou] Kotomi, you
can play the violin?
[Tomoya gasp softly]
[Kotomi plays poorly]
[Everyone yells]
[Kyou] Kotomi, stop! Stop!
[Nishina] You're putting too
much pressure on the strings!
[Nishina] Relax your hold!
[Tomoya] Stop playing!
Stop playing!
[Everyone yelling in pain]
[All gasp in relief]
It's divine.
Tomoya, what is with her?
[Tomoya] Don't ask me...
The shock almost destroyed me!
[Kotomi] Why?
I think I got it.
The day after tomorrow,
on Monday,
you're making your debut
playing the violin.
[Kotomi] But why?
Are you sure she's
giving a concert?
Oh, don't you worry.
She's become quite
proficient at playing it.
[Kotomi] Why?
Okay, so anyway...
It looks like you and
I are all alone now.
So, what do you wanna do?
[Tomoya] I'm going
to take a nap.
[Kotomi] Why?